.Dd May 7, 2024
.Dt LIBGH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libgh
.Nd GitHub scraping library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Em import libgh
.Pp
.Ft Dict
.Fo libgh.load_account
.Fa "String account_name"
.Fa "Integer cache_days"
.Fa "Boolean force_fetch=False"
.Fa "List complete=[]"
.Fc
.Ft Dict
.Fo libgh.load_accounts
.Fa "List accounts_list"
.Fa "Integer cache_days"
.Fa "Boolean force_fetch=False"
.Fa "List complete=[]"
.Fc
.Ft Dict
.Fo libgh.load_repository
.Fa "String account_name"
.Fa "String repository_name"
.Fa "Integer cache_days"
.Fa "Boolean force_fetch=False"
.Fc
.Ft Dict
.Fo libgh.load_repositories
.Fa "List repositories_list"
.Fa "Integer cache_days"
.Fa "Boolean force_fetch=False"
.Fc
.Pp
The following more generic functions will be moved into the
.Lb libpnu
in a future version:
.Pp
.Ft Bytes ,
.Ft ListOfTuples
.Fo libgh.get_url_bdata
.Fa "String url"
.Fa "String cache_dir"
.Fa "Dict headers={}"
.Fa "Integer cache_days=1"
.Fa "Boolean cache_index=False"
.Fa "Boolean force_fetch=False"
.Fa "Integer min_delay=0"
.Fa "Integer max_per_minute=-1"
.Fa "Integer max_per_hour=-1"
.Fa "Integer max_per_day=-1"
.Fa "Integer timeout=15"
.Fc
.Ft String ,
.Ft ListOfTuples
.Fo libgh.get_url_data
.Fa "String url"
.Fa "String cache_dir"
.Fa "Dict headers={}"
.Fa "Integer cache_days=1"
.Fa "Boolean cache_index=False"
.Fa "Boolean force_fetch=False"
.Fa "Integer min_delay=0"
.Fa "Integer max_per_minute=-1"
.Fa "Integer max_per_hour=-1"
.Fa "Integer max_per_day=-1"
.Fa "Integer timeout=15"
.Fc
.Ft Void
.Fo libgh.prune_cache
.Fa "String cache_dir"
.Fa "Integer cache_days"
.Fc
.Ft List
.Fo libgh.collection2xml
.Fa "Collection data"
.Fa "String name='root'"
.Fa "Integer depth=0"
.Fa "Integer indent_size=2"
.Fa "Boolean show_types=False"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn load_account
function returns a dictionary of account information.
.Pp
The
.Fn load_accounts
function returns a dictionary of accounts information.
.Pp
The
.Fa complete
parameters contains a list of optional contents to download.
It currently only applies to organizational accounts and can contain the
strings "forked_from" and "topics" if an additional request is to be
performed to complete missing information from accounts requests.
.Pp
The
.Fn load_repository
function returns a dictionary of repository information.
.Pp
The
.Fn load_repositories
function returns a dictionary of repositories information.
.Pp
The
.Fn get_url_bdata
function returns an URL binary data and HTTP headers from a recent cache file
or from the Web.
.Pp
The
.Fn get_url_data
function returns an URL text data and HTTP headers from a recent cache file
or from the Web.
.Pp
A dictionary of additional headers (typically for setting session cookies)
can be provided in the optional
.Fa headers
parameters.
.Pp
The
.Fn prune_cache
function removes old files and their index entries, and unused directories
from the caching directory.
.Pp
The
.Fn collection2xml
function returns the collection data type as a list of XML lines.
The currently supported collection data types are dict, list, tuple, set,
frozenset. The name of the root element can be indicated with the
.Fa name
parameter. The number of spaces per identation level can be indicated with the
.Fa indent_size
parameter. The elements' type can be optionally included as a tag property
with the
.Fa show_types
parameter.
.Pp
All parameters with default values are optional.
.Ss CACHING PARAMETERS
The
.Fa cache_dir
parameters indicate the name of a subdirectory in the caching directory
intended to isolate the calling program's usage.
.Pp
The
.Fa cache_days
parameters indicate the number of days a content should be served from the
cache before being refreshed from the Web. A value of 0 means to disable
caching functionalities.
.Pp
The
.Fa force_fetch
parameters indicate if contents should be refreshed from the Web regardless
of their age (but their results will be cached).
.Pp
The
.Fa cache_index
parameters indicate if an
.Pa index.txt
file should be generated to describe what's stored in the cache (it's only
for human readability purposes).
.Ss RATE-LIMITING PARAMETERS
The
.Fa min_delay
parameters indicate the number of seconds to be waited between requests
to a specific Web site. 0 means no delay.
.Pp
The
.Fa max_per_day ,
.Fa max_per_hour
and
.Fa max_per_minute
parameters indicate the cumulated number of requests to a specific Web site
that can be made per time period. -1 means no limit.
.Pp
The
.Fa timeout
parameters indicate the maximum number of seconds to wait for an answer
from a Web site, before raising a
.Em LookupError
exception.
.Pp
Triggering rate limiting will likely raise a
.Em PermissionError
exception.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev LOCALAPPDATA
and
.Ev TMP
environment variables under Windows, and
.Ev HOME ,
.Ev TMPDIR
and
.Ev TMP
environment variables under other operating systems
can influence the caching directory used.
.Sh FILES
The
.Lb libgh
will attempt to maintain a caching directory for the web requests it makes.
.Pp
This directory will be located in one of the following places:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Unix:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Pa ${HOME}/.cache/libgh
.It
.Pa ${TMPDIR}/.cache/libgh
.It
.Pa ${TMP}/.cache/libgh
.El
.It
Windows:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Pa %LOCALAPPDATA%/cache/libgh
.It
.Pa %TMP%/cache/libgh
.El
.El
.Pp
An
.Pa index.txt
file will make the correspondence between URL and files.
.Sh EXAMPLES
A function call
.Fo load_account
.Fa "HubTou"
.Fa 1
.Fc
on a personal GitHub account named
.Em HubTou
returns this dictionary of account information:
.Lk https://www.frbsd.org/xch/libgh.txt
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Lb libgh
is not a standard UNIX one.
.Pp
This implementation tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sg PORTABILITY
To be tested under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
This library was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU PNU project
.Pp
It's intended as the scraping engine for another tool.
.Sh LICENSE
This library is available under the 3\-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou
.Sh CAVEATS
Some information are not available in unauthenticated mode and the rate limits
per hour are quite low, but it should be fine anyway for most usages.
