.Dd May 18, 2024
.Dt LIBGH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libgh
.Nd GitHub scraping tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl \-days|\-d Ar DAYS
.Op Fl \-force|\-f
.Op Fl \-from
.Op Fl \-json|\-j
.Op Fl \-prune|\-p
.Op Fl \-topics
.Op Fl \-xml|\-x
.Op Fl \-debug
.Op Fl \-help|\-?
.Op Fl \-version
.Op Fl \-
.Ar account_or_repository
.Op Ar ...
.Pp
The alias
.Em lgh
is also available to shorten the command name.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command\-line utility scraps data from a list of GitHub
accounts (either personal or organizational) or repositories (in
account/repository form).
.Pp
By default this data is returned as pretty\-printed text, or JSON data
if the
.Op Fl \-json|\-j
option is used, or XML data if the
.Op Fl \-xml|\-x
option is used.
.Pp
As data is retrieved in unauthenticated mode, some of it may be missing.
For instance, organizational accounts will not mention the origin of
forked repositories and may come with partial repositories topics. The
.Op Fl \-from
and
.Op Fl \-topics
options will enable additional repository scraping in order to provide
these information.
.Pp
The GitHub Web site is applying rate limiting rules. To comply with
its policies no more than 60 requests per hour, with at least a
1 second interval between requests, will be performed. The tool
will also maintain a caching directory of requests results, which
it will reuse for 7 days or the
.Op Fl \-days|\-d
option parameter.
A value of 0 will instruct the tool not to use caching, while the
.Op Fl \-force|\-f
option will force reloading the resources requested. The
.Op Fl \-debug
option will show if a resource comes from the cache or the Web,
as well as the number of Web requests made to GitHub per day, hour
and minute.
.Pp
The cache can be trimmed to the 7 days or
.Op Fl \-days|\-d
parameter value with the
.Op Fl \-prune|\-p
option. The pages are stored as XZ compressed files in order to
reduce disk usage.
.Ss OPTIONS
.Op Fl \-days|\-d Ar DAYS
Set number of caching days (0=don't use cache)
.Pp
.Op Fl \-force|\-f
Force fetching URL instead of using cache
.Pp
.Op Fl \-from
Load repositories when forked_from is blank
.Pp
.Op Fl \-json|\-j
Switch to JSON output instead of plain text
.Pp
.Op Fl \-prune|\-p
Prune cache items olday than DAYS and cache index
.Pp
.Op Fl \-topics
Load repositories when there are missing topics
.Pp
.Op Fl \-xml|\-x
Switch to XML output instead of plain text
.Pp
.Op Fl \-debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.Op Fl \-help|\-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl \-version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl \-
Options processing terminator
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev LOCALAPPDATA
and
.Ev TMP
environment variables under Windows, and
.Ev HOME ,
.Ev TMPDIR
and
.Ev TMP
environment variables under other operating systems
can influence the caching directory used.
.Sh FILES
The
.Nm
utility will attempt to maintain a caching directory
for the web requests it makes.
.Pp
This directory will be located in one of the following places:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Unix:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Pa ${HOME}/.cache/libgh
.It
.Pa ${TMPDIR}/.cache/libgh
.It
.Pa ${TMP}/.cache/libgh
.El
.It
Windows:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Pa %LOCALAPPDATA%/cache/libgh
.It
.Pa %TMP%/cache/libgh
.El
.El
.Pp
An
.Pa index.txt
file will make the correspondence between URL and files.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std libgh
.Sh EXAMPLES
To extract data from a personal GitHub account named
.Em HubTou
in all possible output formats, do:
.Bd -literal
$ lgh \-\-debug HubTou > libgh.txt
$ lgh \-\-debug \-\-json HubTou > libgh.json
$ lgh \-\-debug \-\-xml HubTou > libgh.xml
.Ed
.Pp
Results for this example are available there:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Lk https://www.frbsd.org/xch/libgh.txt
.It
.Lk https://www.frbsd.org/xch/libgh.json
.It
.Lk https://www.frbsd.org/xch/libgh.xml
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fetch 1 ,
.Xr curl 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is not a standard UNIX command.
.Pp
This implementation tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
To be tested under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
This implementation was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU PNU project
.Pp
It's intended as the scraping engine for another tool.
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3\-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou
.Sh CAVEATS
Some information are not available in unauthenticated mode and the rate limits
per hour are quite low, but it should be fine anyway for most usages.
